---
title: "User Behavior Modeling with Deep Learning for Recommendation: Recent Advances"
collection: talks
type: "Tutorial"
permalink: /talks/ubm-2023
venue: "RecSys 2023"
date: 2023-09-18
location: "Singapore"
---

User Behavior Modeling (UBM) plays a critical role in user interest learning, and has been extensively used in recommender systems. The exploration of key interactive patterns between users and items has yielded significant improvements and great commercial success across a variety of recommendation tasks. This tutorial aims to offer an in-depth exploration of this evolving research topic. We start by reviewing the research background of UBM, paving the way to a clearer understanding of the opportunities and challenges. Then, we present a systematic categorization of existing UBM research works, which can be categorized into four different directions including Conventional UBM, Long-Sequence UBM, Multi-Type UBM, and UBM with Side Information. To provide an expansive understanding, we delve into each category, discussing representative models while highlighting their respective strengths and weaknesses. Furthermore, we elucidate on the industrial applications of UBM methods, aiming to provide insights into the practical value of existing UBM solutions. Finally, we identify some open challenges and future prospects in UBM. This comprehensive tutorial serves to provide a solid foundation for anyone looking to understand and implement UBM in their research or business. [More information here](https://ubm-tutorial.github.io/)